P_matrix_model
===

Code estimating the parameters of a reverberation model with a fraquency dependent exponential decay, as described in [Stochastic reverberation model with a frequency dependent attenuation"_, WASPAA 2021].

Requirements
-------------
  - **python 3** version >= 3.8.5
  - **numpy** version >= 1.16
  - **scipy** version >= 1.2.1
  - **wavio** version >= 0.0.4 (only for the notebook, available on pip)

How to use
-------------
  See notebook **example.ipynb** for an example run of the EM algorithm or **help(EM)** for documentation of the module.

Examples
-------------
  In **P_matrix_model/saves**, example EM estimations can be found in pickle format. They can be loaded with the function EM.load_algo(filename) to recover an object of class EM.EM, including the original RIR EM.h and the learned parameters, and the sampling frequency of the original RIR.
  
  Audio examples of generated filters are available in the folder **P_matrix_model/audio_examples**, inluding the original anechoic recording, taken from the TSP speech database [1], the recording filtered by the true RIR, the recording filtered by an RIR generated by this model and the recording filtered by an RIR generated by our old model [2].
  
  RIRs from three datasets are available in the folder **P_matrix_model/RIRs**:
  - Roomsimove: RIRs generated by Roomsimove [1] as described in the article,
  - MARDY: RIRs from the Mardy database recorded in a recording room at sampling frequency 48kHz [2]
  - QMUL: RIRs from the QMUL database recorded in a classroom as sampling frequency 96kHz [3].
  
  
  
References
-------------
<a id="1">[1]</a> 
P. Kabal (2002)n
“TSP speech database,”
McGill University, Database Version,
http://www-mmsp.ece.mcgill.ca/Documents/Data/


<a id="1">[2]</a> 
A. Aknin, T. Dupré, and R. Badeau (2020),
“Evaluation of a stochastic reverberation model based on the image source principle,”
in International Conference on Digital Audio Effects.

<a id="1">[3]</a> 
E. Vincent and D. R. Campbell (2008),
“Roomsimove toolbox,”
GNU Public License,
https://members.loria.fr/EVincent/software-and-data/

<a id="1">[4]</a> 
J. Y. Wen, N. D. Gaubitch, E. A. Habets, T. Myatt, and P. A.Naylor (2006),
“Evaluation of speech dereverberation algorithms usingthe MARDY database,”
in Proc. Intl. Workshop Acoust. Echo Noise Control (IWAENC).

<a id="1">[5]</a> 
R. Stewart and M. Sandler (2010),
“Database of omnidirectional andB-format room impulse responses,”
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing. IEEE, pp. 165–168.


Contact
-------------
  Contact Achille Aknin (achille [dot] aknin [at] telecom-paris [dot] fr) if you have any question or issue.
